So now we know how to get all the information about a user's location.
We're going to put this knowledge together and build an app called hiker's watch and the app looks like
this.
Says like one of those high cars watches and it gives your GPS location and also a bit more information
about your location as well such as the level of accuracy the altitude and bought a hiker's watch could
never give you the actual address.
If there is one as well.
So it really is just an opportunity for you to practice the skills that we've learnt in the last few
videos.
Notice as well that I've got a nice full screen image here.
This is something we haven't done before so you'll need to do a bit of googling to figure out how to
do that.
But try and recreate the nice full screen background.
It's a nice thing to be able to have under your belt as an Android Developer and otherwise everything
should be reasonably straightforward.
Best of luck.
Go for it.
All right and here we go.
Hey that went well.
I'm going to of course by creating a new project and I'll call it.
Watch this out the apostrophe just in case it causes any problems and will go for marshmallow and an
empty activity when not going to be using a map this time and later used as the default.
Well that's setting up that's find a nice background image.
One place that I get you quite often to find background images is and splash dot com.
It's one of the few sites that you can use to get royalty free photos for things like backgrounds and
other parts of your apps.
Now as it happens that first one looks pretty relevant.
So I'm going to click download
and there we go control click save image as all right click save as on Windows.
And I'm just going to call it background
that's likely that that image will be far bigger than you need so as before.
I'm going to quickly open it up in Preview tools just size and I'm going to change it to
a thousand pixels in width should be perfectly fine.
And I'm actually going to crop it a little bit.
For my phone screen as well.
I can do that using command.
OK.
And there we go.
That should make a nice background.
Stay safe.
Obviously when you're in windows you need to find a graphics tool to do something similar for you if
you want to crop and resize images.
OK.
So we're ready to go here in studio.
So I'm going to open up the project and gonna start by making the full screen.
There are many different ways to do this so I hope you found one of them but I think the easiest is
to change the app theme which you can do in Android manifest Daltex email.
So just change the theme so keep the style there and then theme and you can see that compact that will
keep it compatible and no action bar.
So now if we run that up we should see that it's displayed full screen and then again you can see the
hello world is without the action bar there at the top.
Great.
So we've got our full screen.
Let's bring in our image.
I'm going to go over to find the Windows Explorer if you're in Windows and then take my background pic
file and paste it in.
I just did.
See Control-C on Windows and then select the drawable folder and then command and control the pace that
it now will go over to our layout.
I'm going to get rid of the hello world label.
And I'm going to bring in an image of you which is now in images and media.
Or you go and you can see that now and Android 2.2 were immediately given the option to add an image
resource to our image view.
So I'll do that without a background image.
And there we go.
I have a quick look at the different options for scale type that could work.
I think that looks good.
So I'm going to put the content of the app down on the left hand side in front of the troops.
Great.
And one thing you might notice is that the app is not cool or the image is not quite stretching to the
edge of the app.
That's because our relative layout has got some padding built in.
So the click on relative layout view or properties and then change the padding for all of those to zero.
I would get from that to take a look and make sure everything's laid out appropriately while that's
running well in our first text view so we're going to need a few of these.
The first one I'm going to have will be for my title so I'm going to change the text to hiker's watch
and then
I'm just going to change the style a little
so I will look for the text size has a lot of options here.
Around 14 Aspatria moments.
Let's change that to 20 Espey
or 24.
And the drop down.
Great.
That looks good.
Just drag it up slightly.
Excellent.
And now let's bring in some labels for our location information we'll start with latitude and Lagace
this will be our latitude.
And I'm just going to put some
doubtful values in for the moment.
We need to change the color so that it looks good for those trees.
So I think I'll just go for plain white and we'll change the size as well.
16 shit
work great.
OK now I'm going to jump over to the text here.
And just show you how we can create a layout with the axonal rather than drag and drop.
So first off I'm going to change the ID there to a lot
text.
And then I'm going to copy and paste
all of that down.
So now here we should be Polow Latics V will change the text too long it's you
change the margin up to something like 12 TBS and we'll change the ID here to learn text for you.
Then began I think maybe I'll reduce that slightly bring them a little bit closer together and then
we'll leave the rest for the moment until we see what data we actually get back from the location object
and then we'll add the extra text views in when we're ready.
OK.
So let's jump over to main activity and write our code for getting the users location.
So hopefully you remember we start by creating our location manager
which we'll call location manager.
And then we create our location listener
and we bring in Klaas's
And then when the app is ready we'll set up our location manager.
And can I cast this to a location manager type from this to get system service and then context dot
location service is what we want and we set up our location listener which is going to be a new location.
Listener
and on location changed is what we want to do something with our location.
And for now we'll just convert it to a string and put it in the logs
OK then we need to set up a location listening by asking for permission so as we're hopefully now fairly
comfortable with we look for
a build version STK of less than 23.
And if that's the case we set up our location manager
to start requesting location updates using the GPS provider.
And we'll stick with 0 0.
So it will update with no minimum time or distance requirement from the previous update and location
listener that we want to deal with the new location.
If that's not the case we're running marshmallow or above then we need to ask for permission or more
precisely we need to check whether or not we've got permission.
And we do that using context
compatibility.
And then check self permission checking this activity and we're checking manifest permission get access
fine location and we want to check to see if that's not equal to the package manager got permission
granted.
That actually reminds me to add the permission to the manifest
Let's do that now to access file location
Don't forget to do that.
I k so if permission is not granted then we need to ask for permission and we do that using activity
compatibility to request permissions and we want to request them for this activity.
And we're going to create a new array of strings which would just contain a single string which is manifest
got permission taught access fine location.
And we also send our request code which would just keep as number one.
And then finally for this section of code if this is not the case that means we have permission so we
can start listening for location.
And also while we're here we have permission on the app launch then we can do something with that location.
Now we want to do quite a lot with the location even though we just initially putting it in the logs.
So I think what I'm going to do is create a method
called
update location info and this will take a location variable which we'll call location.
And for now
it will just look that
but of course later on we'll use that to update
his watch page.
And so we'll add that here but we need to get the last known location
which we do using location manager
to get last known location
from the GPL provider.
And then I think I'll do a quick check because there's always a possibility that there isn't a last
known location.
So if location is not now
then we'll call the update location info method.
OK so now we should get a hit to the Lokes when we first run the app.
If we've already got permission if we haven't got permission then we need to be able to process when
the user gives us permission and we do that of course with on request permissions result.
There it is so as before.
We'll check to see if Granth results length is greater than zero.
And grond results zero is equal to package manager got permission granted.
So if that's the case then we have permission but we still actually have to check that we have permission
even though we know that we've been given permission.
Our code won't compile unless we explicitly check for that permission.
So again this manifest permission access fine location and this time we want to check that that's equal
to a package manager got permission granted and if that's the case then we can start at location manager
going and in fact it would probably be worth creating a method to do that.
So I'll call it start listening.
It doesn't need
any variables.
We can just put our check in there
like that
and then we can just refer to that each time that we need to OK.
So let's now give it a try.
We should of course now be asked for the user's location.
And if we get it then it should appear in the logs every time it's updated.
Here we go he says asking for permission will tap allow and then make a small update
to the location send that 3 and for a quick look should appear in our logs
and there it is.
So we've got the GPS location then we've also got the accuracy.
We've got the time which I'm not going to displace the user and the altitude as well.
Great.
So let's now add in other items to our user interface I'm going to do that by copying this text.
So this is going to be accuracy text VI we're going to align it below the on that you text me.
I'm going to give it a bit more of a margin just to space it out a little bit.
So you get a little laugh or you
and then
I'll change that so you accuracy.
And then similarly
for altitude.
So this will be out text VI and it will be bely accuracy text for you.
And finally we'll anticipate what's coming next.
Without a dress text for you.
That's position that's right.
So we wanted to be below the alt text view and we want to have an ID of address text VI and then we're
going to have multiple lines and this address takes free well and if you manage to figure out how to
do that we use backslash and
to generate a new line
that we get.
So that will be for now.
So I'm actually going to update these labels before we get the address data.
Could really do it the other way around it doesn't matter too much.
We're going to do that here.
In the update location info.
So let's again remind us what we get from our location object.
We've got our location accuracy and altitude.
So we're going to need to find our various text views.
So let's start with
last text we
need to convert that to a text view.
And we're going to get it from find a view by id resources ID's to our last text view.
And while we're doing that we'll set up the rest.
So we've got long text textfield
we've got Altace text fi
and we've got accuracy takes for you
and then we just want to set each of those appropriately so that text the
set text and we want this to be latitude
and then we're going to take our location object and get latitude
similarly text you set the text too long a cheat.
So that's like Haitian dog get unachieved and we'll take out old text vs alt..
And set the text to
altitude and then location dot get altitude.
And finally accuracy
will set the text there to accuracy.
And then not altitude but accuracy.
All right.
So let's try that out.
And then if that works.
All that remains is to add how users address.
And here we go.
You can see you've already got the latitude longitude accuracy and altitude in there just to make sure
altitude is working if I change that to 12 meters here.
And that updates nicely there as well.
I'm going to leave the latitude and longitude with a slightly ridiculous number of decimal places you
could quite easily round that if you want to just I've just as well that my hikers watch at the top
is white.
I was fairly sure I changed that but just in case whatever I did didn't work.
Let's go back.
And find the Technicolor
regalis.
Click on the three dots and then color and then we'll go for that dark almost black color.
Excellent.
So all looking good.
All that remains is to get
our address and we do that if a member.
By creating a geocoder object so geocoder with a capital G.
Call it geocoding and this is going to be a new
geocoder using the application context and the default either uses locale.
Then we're going to create our list of
addresses
which I'll call list addresses
and we're going to take our geocoder and get the information from a location and that location is going
to be location dot get latitude location dot
that route.
And we are interested in one result here.
That of course could fail.
So we are going to surround it with try and catch
just like and find out before we update everything.
I'm just going to add that to the logs.
So did I place info and the list addresses to get.
And we want the first item in the array.
I'm going to convert that to a string.
Strictly speaking I should first check to make sure that there is indeed an address for us.
So if list addresses is not no and addresses dot size is greater than zero then we're right back to
the logs
as we go.
All right so let's see that in action.
We should now get some location data obviously not just for the user yet but in the logs.
And there it is.
So that is our address Hexton road Lily et cetera.
Excellent.
So now it's just a matter of doing more or less what we did in the challenge.
At the end of the previous video and putting this into a nice friendly format for the user and I'm going
to do that by creating a string called address and initially I'm going to call that
could not find a address.
So if it does fail then at least we get a nice error message rather than just nothing worse that it
just leaves it as the old address.
So now we need to do our fairly lengthy checking of each item in list address.
So we'll get through this as quickly as possible so our list addresses get zero to get our address and
we'll start with the sub thoroughfare.
So if that is not know
then will append to address that part of you
go.
And one thing I should do actually is set the address to an empty string once we know that we are successful.
And we'll pop a space on the end there as well.
Then we'll do the same thing for the AFAB.
But this time we'll add a backslash and after the fab
then we want the locality again with a backslash in
and then we want the postal code you know ZIP code.
And finally we'll have the country name
great.
So now we've got the address all ready to go.
We need to update the text for you.
So let's create a new text view gold address text for you.
And we need to convert that to a text view and we'll find it.
Using find view by id Jules's ID dot address text.
And then we'll take our address text view and set the text to address noticed that we're doing that
whether or not we were successful at getting the address.
But if we're not successful for any reason then it will say could not find address.
Let's take a look.
Wonderful.
You can see we've got an address now.
One thing I have noticed there is that we could do with
starting the address with address and also a small thing but let's remove fake street
altered in the text field.
And just leave that as is.
OK.
Quick final check then to see everything in action.
Should all behave now exactly as we want.
And there we go.
Looks great.
And if we update obviously anything here and we'll get our data updated.
Immediately on the app.
Fantastic So I hope you enjoyed that one in the next video.
We're going to prepare for the final app of this section which is the biggest app that you've built
so far.
Apical memorable places.
And that actually requires more than one activity so we're going to have multiple screens for the user
to be working with.
And that's what we're going to find out how to do in the next video.
So there.